Journal.md, before:

# Journal

Document project progress, the development process, accomplishments, snags, and time spent on this class. You may use whatever format suits you, as long as this information is shared. 

[Time Log](TimeLog.md)

### Week 1

1/18/2016 

Tasks Completed:
 * Chose a project goal
 * Reviewed SkinnySki.com 
 * Created this repository 
 * Wrote the problem statement
 * Started documenting the project plan
 * Began listing technologies and how they fit in this project
 
I have a solid idea for the individual project and am anxious to get started. One area I struggled with a little bit was getting specific on the project plan with regard to what exactly I'll be doing in the later weeks. I think once I have the screen layout complete this coming week, it will make it much easier to add more detail to the plan. 

I also started looking at a few different services that could be used:

* Here's the home page for the google maps web services: https://developers.google.com/maps/web-services/overview?hl=en This can be used to display a map of the trail location.
* A service to identify the current snow depth, most recent snowfal, etc.  Looks like this data is available: http://www.weather.gov/nerfc/snow, but I did not quickly find a service that returns the data. Will keep searching. Scraping the details from something like this, may work as well: http://www.nohrsc.noaa.gov/nsa/reports.html?region=National&var=snowdepth&dy=2016&dm=1&dd=24&units=e&sort=value&filter=0
* A service for current weather conditions migth be helpful as well. http://openweathermap.org looks promising and they have a free tier. There's also some integration with google maps, so I think I may be able to project weather data over the google map?

### Week 2

1/29/2016

Where did the week go?!?!  Prep for classes and my grad class took up a fair amount of time this week, but I set aside a little time today to work on the screen design. I had said I was not going to go fancy with the design and would just whiteboard it or draw on paper, but when I sat down to do it, I really did want to do something a little prettier, AND using a tool allows copy and paste, which is faster than redrawing (for me anyway). So... I did a quick search of free wireframe tools available. One of the first I found with a "free wireframe tool" Google search was https://wireframe.cc/pro/.  I signed up for the 7-day free trial, learned the ins and outs of the tool, and created my wireframes in about 1 1/2 hours.  You can view the wireframes, complete with links here: https://wireframe.cc/pro/pp/af3ee6b9238237 and I also exported them as images into this repository since after the 7-day trial I'm not sure if I'll still be able to use that link or not.   I felt like this was a valuable process - it forced me to think about what I really want/need to capture and how to structure the site itself. I'm sure there will be tweaks as I build it out, but I think I'm in good shape to create the real jsps and the database.  

I also created a web application project in intelliJ and connected it to my project repository in github. This way my code, journa, plan and all related documents are in a single place.  I recorded a short video as I did this so others can see one approach to adding a remote.  The git hub article on adding a remote is [here](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-a-remote/).  There are some plugins for editing/previewing markdown in intelliJ. I installed all of the recommended plugins. The HTML preview is a nice option.

Did a first deploy of my project website to openshift:  built a war in intellij of that new project and deployed to openshift using the tomcat manager.  It's not much to look at, but it's good to confirm the process. Here it is: http://tomcat-madjava.rhcloud.com/FatBikeTrailReports%5Fwar/

Created all jsps with content placeholders.  

1/30/2016 

Reviewed the wireframes with a potential users. Made a few small updates to include grooming type and reworded a few items for clarity.

### Week 3

2/2/2016

Added unit testing, logging, and hibernate to the application to set up for 
demonstrating DAOs and Hibernate. Created packages, added a User entity and 
built the persistence layer to demonstrate both a sql and hibernate dao. Only
 one method is built out at this point, along with a test for it. This was a 
 good way to ensure everything is connected and working before I build out 
 more. Eventually I'll remove the SQL dao, it's in there as an example for 
 student for now. 
 
 Ran into an issue with hibernate - needed the geronimo jar. We did not run 
 into this last semester so either this is related to tomEE or the new 
 version of intelliJ. 

2/5/2016

Designed and created all the tables today. IntelliJ's database view is even 
better than I thought. Originally I named a table "user" and decided I wanted
 to call it "users" instead.  I already had a dao written (as a demo for 
 class) with sql referring to "user". Changing the name of the table in the 
 database few, prompted the change automatically in the dao. How cool is 
 that?! It did not, however change user to users in the hibernate.cfg.xml, 
 but I have to wonder if there isn't a plugin that might handle making the 
 changes in the hibernate configs too. If not, it could be a useful addition.
  Ooh, writing plugins for IDEs - possible independent research topic. 

### Week 4

2/12/2016

Added in the authentication/authorization piece today. I had 
originally designed a join table between the users and users_roles table, 
called user_role and was storing the roles in a role table. I had hoped I 
could (relatively easily) configure tomcat for this, however,  tomcat's 
JDBCRealm relies specifically on a user table and a user roles table that each have a 
 username column making my join table unnecessary. Similarly, the user
  roles tables must have the role name on it. To keep things as simple as 
  possible for class examples, I am back to the structure tomcat requires 
  which meant eliminating the role and user_role tables. 
   
Regenerated the database diagrams to account for above.
  
The current config is set such that anyone can view pages listed immediately 
  under the web directory. The pages in the "user" directory require login 
  and the user role.
  
2/13/2016
  
  Added in bootstrap. I haven't worked with bootstrap before, but it was 
  pretty easy to add.  I chose to copy in files rather than pointing to the 
  CDN locations so that the application will work if I'm offline.  Not 100% 
  sure if I have the best structure for housing the js/css/fonts, etc, but 
  it's a start. Also made the navbar more dynamic - took me a little while as
   I'm rusty with jquery/javascript - it's been a LOOOOONG time since I 
   worked with those. 
   
   Resources: 
   * [Setting Navbar items to active](https://rjartiaga.wordpress.com/2015/03/25/bootstrap-navbar-classactive/)
   * [Bootstrap tutorial](http://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/)
   
Automatically generated entities for each table along with the hibernate 
config. I'm not confident the various relationships are built correctly with 
the automatic portion and this may have had to do with not generating all 
entities at the same time.  This is basically a note to myself to check on 
this going forward.  Regardless of whether some of the generated items will 
need tweaking, it was really nice to be able to quickly get the classes and 
hibernate config built.  
  
### Week 7
3/2/2016
 
Time got away from me the last couple weeks with some major projects due in 
my grad class and project reviews/grading for Advanced Java. This week that 
grade class ended, and I have just under a week before the next 
one starts, so I need to hit the Fat Bike Trail Reports application hard to 
catch back up!

I looked at the OpenWeatherMap api today to get current weather data by zip 
code. http://openweathermap.org/api. This does not seem to have snow depth, 
and I'd really like to be able to stick with one weather service.  Here is a 
possibility but looks like it is paid only: http://www.meteogroup
.com/en/gb/sectors/media/mobile-apps/weather-api.html. From what I'm finding,
 services tend to provide snow depth data  for ski resorts. I may need to add this as a 
 trail report  item so we have a way to collect the data ourselves.  Found 
 it! The data is here:  http://www.nohrsc.noaa.gov/nsa/reports.html?region=Northern_Great_Lakes&var=snowdepth&dy=2016&dm=3&dd=2&units=e&sort=value&filter=0
 So I could grab the text file for this if there isn't a service behind it.  

3/3/2016 There's a team in the evening section who may take on the task of 
 creating a
  service to access the snow depth based on a zip code using the data link 
  above. :)
  Added the user signup/registration functionality. This is not done, but is 
  a first cut at adding the user from a form to the db. Need to add bootstrap
   styling and validation to the form.
  
3/5/2016 Decided to use Bootstrap Validator as my independent research topic.
 It's been a long time since I've done any frontend development and Bootstrap
  is new to me.  I know there is a lot of slick validation that can be added 
  in as well, so after poking around at a few options, I decided to go with 
  Bootstrap Validator for now: http://1000hz.github
  .io/bootstrap-validator/#validator-examples. Honestly, I choose it because 
  it was one of the top results in a google search and I was able to get it 
  working pretty quickly.

Commit message:

adding daos, tests, updating journal, starting on view in jsps

Journal.md, after:

# Journal

Document project progress, the development process, accomplishments, snags, and time spent on this class. You may use whatever format suits you, as long as this information is shared. 

[Time Log](TimeLog.md)

### Week 1

1/18/2016 

Tasks Completed:
 * Chose a project goal
 * Reviewed SkinnySki.com 
 * Created this repository 
 * Wrote the problem statement
 * Started documenting the project plan
 * Began listing technologies and how they fit in this project
 
I have a solid idea for the individual project and am anxious to get started. One area I struggled with a little bit was getting specific on the project plan with regard to what exactly I'll be doing in the later weeks. I think once I have the screen layout complete this coming week, it will make it much easier to add more detail to the plan. 

I also started looking at a few different services that could be used:

* Here's the home page for the google maps web services: https://developers.google.com/maps/web-services/overview?hl=en This can be used to display a map of the trail location.
* A service to identify the current snow depth, most recent snowfal, etc.  Looks like this data is available: http://www.weather.gov/nerfc/snow, but I did not quickly find a service that returns the data. Will keep searching. Scraping the details from something like this, may work as well: http://www.nohrsc.noaa.gov/nsa/reports.html?region=National&var=snowdepth&dy=2016&dm=1&dd=24&units=e&sort=value&filter=0
* A service for current weather conditions migth be helpful as well. http://openweathermap.org looks promising and they have a free tier. There's also some integration with google maps, so I think I may be able to project weather data over the google map?

### Week 2

1/29/2016

Where did the week go?!?!  Prep for classes and my grad class took up a fair amount of time this week, but I set aside a little time today to work on the screen design. I had said I was not going to go fancy with the design and would just whiteboard it or draw on paper, but when I sat down to do it, I really did want to do something a little prettier, AND using a tool allows copy and paste, which is faster than redrawing (for me anyway). So... I did a quick search of free wireframe tools available. One of the first I found with a "free wireframe tool" Google search was https://wireframe.cc/pro/.  I signed up for the 7-day free trial, learned the ins and outs of the tool, and created my wireframes in about 1 1/2 hours.  You can view the wireframes, complete with links here: https://wireframe.cc/pro/pp/af3ee6b9238237 and I also exported them as images into this repository since after the 7-day trial I'm not sure if I'll still be able to use that link or not.   I felt like this was a valuable process - it forced me to think about what I really want/need to capture and how to structure the site itself. I'm sure there will be tweaks as I build it out, but I think I'm in good shape to create the real jsps and the database.  

I also created a web application project in intelliJ and connected it to my project repository in github. This way my code, journa, plan and all related documents are in a single place.  I recorded a short video as I did this so others can see one approach to adding a remote.  The git hub article on adding a remote is [here](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-a-remote/).  There are some plugins for editing/previewing markdown in intelliJ. I installed all of the recommended plugins. The HTML preview is a nice option.

Did a first deploy of my project website to openshift:  built a war in intellij of that new project and deployed to openshift using the tomcat manager.  It's not much to look at, but it's good to confirm the process. Here it is: http://tomcat-madjava.rhcloud.com/FatBikeTrailReports%5Fwar/

Created all jsps with content placeholders.  

1/30/2016 

Reviewed the wireframes with a potential users. Made a few small updates to include grooming type and reworded a few items for clarity.

### Week 3

2/2/2016

Added unit testing, logging, and hibernate to the application to set up for 
demonstrating DAOs and Hibernate. Created packages, added a User entity and 
built the persistence layer to demonstrate both a sql and hibernate dao. Only
 one method is built out at this point, along with a test for it. This was a 
 good way to ensure everything is connected and working before I build out 
 more. Eventually I'll remove the SQL dao, it's in there as an example for 
 student for now. 
 
 Ran into an issue with hibernate - needed the geronimo jar. We did not run 
 into this last semester so either this is related to tomEE or the new 
 version of intelliJ. 

2/5/2016

Designed and created all the tables today. IntelliJ's database view is even 
better than I thought. Originally I named a table "user" and decided I wanted
 to call it "users" instead.  I already had a dao written (as a demo for 
 class) with sql referring to "user". Changing the name of the table in the 
 database few, prompted the change automatically in the dao. How cool is 
 that?! It did not, however change user to users in the hibernate.cfg.xml, 
 but I have to wonder if there isn't a plugin that might handle making the 
 changes in the hibernate configs too. If not, it could be a useful addition.
  Ooh, writing plugins for IDEs - possible independent research topic. 

### Week 4

2/12/2016

Added in the authentication/authorization piece today. I had 
originally designed a join table between the users and users_roles table, 
called user_role and was storing the roles in a role table. I had hoped I 
could (relatively easily) configure tomcat for this, however,  tomcat's 
JDBCRealm relies specifically on a user table and a user roles table that each have a 
 username column making my join table unnecessary. Similarly, the user
  roles tables must have the role name on it. To keep things as simple as 
  possible for class examples, I am back to the structure tomcat requires 
  which meant eliminating the role and user_role tables. 
   
Regenerated the database diagrams to account for above.
  
The current config is set such that anyone can view pages listed immediately 
  under the web directory. The pages in the "user" directory require login 
  and the user role.
  
2/13/2016
  
  Added in bootstrap. I haven't worked with bootstrap before, but it was 
  pretty easy to add.  I chose to copy in files rather than pointing to the 
  CDN locations so that the application will work if I'm offline.  Not 100% 
  sure if I have the best structure for housing the js/css/fonts, etc, but 
  it's a start. Also made the navbar more dynamic - took me a little while as
   I'm rusty with jquery/javascript - it's been a LOOOOONG time since I 
   worked with those. 
   
   Resources: 
   * [Setting Navbar items to active](https://rjartiaga.wordpress.com/2015/03/25/bootstrap-navbar-classactive/)
   * [Bootstrap tutorial](http://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/)
   
Automatically generated entities for each table along with the hibernate 
config. I'm not confident the various relationships are built correctly with 
the automatic portion and this may have had to do with not generating all 
entities at the same time.  This is basically a note to myself to check on 
this going forward.  Regardless of whether some of the generated items will 
need tweaking, it was really nice to be able to quickly get the classes and 
hibernate config built.  
  
### Week 7
3/2/2016
 
Time got away from me the last couple weeks with some major projects due in 
my grad class and project reviews/grading for Advanced Java. This week that 
grade class ended, and I have just under a week before the next 
one starts, so I need to hit the Fat Bike Trail Reports application hard to 
catch back up!

I looked at the OpenWeatherMap api today to get current weather data by zip 
code. http://openweathermap.org/api. This does not seem to have snow depth, 
and I'd really like to be able to stick with one weather service.  Here is a 
possibility but looks like it is paid only: http://www.meteogroup
.com/en/gb/sectors/media/mobile-apps/weather-api.html. From what I'm finding,
 services tend to provide snow depth data  for ski resorts. I may need to add this as a 
 trail report  item so we have a way to collect the data ourselves.  Found 
 it! The data is here:  http://www.nohrsc.noaa.gov/nsa/reports.html?region=Northern_Great_Lakes&var=snowdepth&dy=2016&dm=3&dd=2&units=e&sort=value&filter=0
 So I could grab the text file for this if there isn't a service behind it.  

3/3/2016 There's a team in the evening section who may take on the task of 
 creating a
  service to access the snow depth based on a zip code using the data link 
  above. :)
  Added the user signup/registration functionality. This is not done, but is 
  a first cut at adding the user from a form to the db. Need to add bootstrap
   styling and validation to the form.
  
3/5/2016 Decided to use Bootstrap Validator as my independent research topic.
 It's been a long time since I've done any frontend development and Bootstrap
  is new to me.  I know there is a lot of slick validation that can be added 
  in as well, so after poking around at a few options, I decided to go with 
  Bootstrap Validator for now: http://1000hz.github
  .io/bootstrap-validator/#validator-examples. Honestly, I chose it because 
  it was one of the top results in a google search and I was able to get it 
  working pretty quickly. 
 
3/6/2016 Added in the TrailDao and TrailReportDao. When I was writing unit 
tests, I noticed tests failing because the id of the inserted record was 
being returned as 0.  Turns out the generated hbm.xml file did not have the
 the generator class set to native:   
       ```<id name="id" type="int" column="id">
            <generator class="native"/>
          </id>```
I'm noticing as I build the daos, that they are all similar, I think these 
could all be a subclass of some abstract Dao.  See this as an example: http://www.java2s.com/Code/Java/Hibernate/GenericDaoFindAll.htm
