TimeLog.md, before:

# Time Log

| Date | Task | Hours | Notes|
|------|------|-------|------|
| 1/18/16| Set up project repository, write problem statement, journal example, technologies used| 2 | |
| 1/24/16 | Added a little more detail to the journal and technologies used in the readme.md   | .5  |   | 
| 1/24/16 | Began researching the google maps api and weather services. Documented my findings in this repo | .5 | |
| 1/29/16 | Wireframes, created project in intellij, recorded video of the process/converted/posted to youtube, journal entry and updates to the project plan, created jsps | 4 | |
| 1/30/16 | Wireframe review and updates | .5 | |
| 2/2/16  | Added log4j, junit, hibernate, sql driver, geronimo, built first daos, updated week 3 details and exercises  | 4 | |
| 2/5/16 | Design and create database tables, journal entry, time entry, plan update | 1.5
| 2/5/16 | Created database diagram, added some missing foreign keys|.5|
| 2/12/16| Added authentication - jsps in the user directory require user role, wrote up week 5 material| 3 |
| 2/13/16| Added bootstrap. Added javascript/jquery to make current page "active" on navbar| 2 | |
| 2/13/16| Added entity for each db table along with a first cut at the  hibernate config for each entity| 1 | |
| 3/2/16| Researched snow depth services.| 1 | |
| 3/3/16| Started user registration - added form and servlet. | 1 | |
| 3/5/16| Added validation to sign up form, now adds user and role on happy path| 1 | |
| 3/5/16| Added daos for trails and trailreport + unit tests| 1 | |

Commit message:

adding dump of data to 2 jsps to display trail and reports

TimeLog.md, after:

# Time Log

| Date | Task | Hours | Notes|
|------|------|-------|------|
| 1/18/16| Set up project repository, write problem statement, journal example, technologies used| 2 | |
| 1/24/16 | Added a little more detail to the journal and technologies used in the readme.md   | .5  |   | 
| 1/24/16 | Began researching the google maps api and weather services. Documented my findings in this repo | .5 | |
| 1/29/16 | Wireframes, created project in intellij, recorded video of the process/converted/posted to youtube, journal entry and updates to the project plan, created jsps | 4 | |
| 1/30/16 | Wireframe review and updates | .5 | |
| 2/2/16  | Added log4j, junit, hibernate, sql driver, geronimo, built first daos, updated week 3 details and exercises  | 4 | |
| 2/5/16 | Design and create database tables, journal entry, time entry, plan update | 1.5
| 2/5/16 | Created database diagram, added some missing foreign keys|.5|
| 2/12/16| Added authentication - jsps in the user directory require user role, wrote up week 5 material| 3 |
| 2/13/16| Added bootstrap. Added javascript/jquery to make current page "active" on navbar| 2 | |
| 2/13/16| Added entity for each db table along with a first cut at the  hibernate config for each entity| 1 | |
| 3/2/16| Researched snow depth services.| 1 | |
| 3/3/16| Started user registration - added form and servlet. | 1 | |
| 3/5/16| Added validation to sign up form, now adds user and role on happy path| 1 | |
| 3/6/16| Added daos for trails and trailreport + unit tests, added dump of data to the jsps| 2 | |
| 3/??/16| |  | |
